doc/howto/manage_bsnl_sms_reminders.md, before:

## Sending reminder SMS via BSNL

We use BSNL to send reminder messages in India. This requires us to comply with DLT regulations, for which we need to maintain
a mapping between IDs assigned by DLT and our messages (identified by locale keys).

This is a how-to on interacting with the BSNL and DLT dashboards and maintaining the required mapping with `simple-server`.

### Managing JWT tokens
<TODO>

### Adding new notification strings
- Add the new notification strings to the locale file (in `config/notifications/locale`)
- Upload the notification template to the DLT dashboard. The name should follow the format: `locale.locale_key`. Some examples:
  - `en.notifications.set01.basic`
  - `hi-IN.notifications.set03.basic`
  - `ti-ET.notifications.set03.basic_repeated.first`

  The locale name needs to be hyphenated (`hi-IN` and not `hi_IN`). This format is used to associate the templates on BSNL to locale keys so it's an important step.
- The template should show up on the BSNL dashboard in a few hours. You will need to name the variables
in the template.

<TODO flesh out these notes on dashboard usage and end-to-end flow, maybe add a video>

### Maintaining template IDs
After the new template has been added to the BSNL dashboard, we need to pull in it's `DLT Template ID` before it can be used as a reminder SMS. We have a script to help with it.

**Note:** You will need production credentials to run the script.

- Copy over the following vars from India production's `.env` file to your `.env.development.local`:
```
BSNL_IHCI_ENTITY_ID=140xxxx
BSNL_IHCI_HEADER=IHCxxx
BSNL_JWT_TOKEN=eyJhxxxx
```
- Run `bundle exec rake bsnl:get_template_details`.
- This should pull the latest configuration from BSNL and save it to `config/data/bsnl_templates.yml`. This will also output a summary of any actions to be taken, go through them carefully.
- Commit and push changes in this file (if there are any).
- Remove the credentials from `.env.development.local`.
- You are all set to use the new reminder message.

#### Additional notes

- The script pulls all templates listed on IHCI's DLT platform. Although, it runs the validations only for reminder notifications specified in `locale/notifications` and will need tweaks to support other kinds of messages.
- You can run `bundle exec rake bsnl:list_pending_templates` to see which templates still need to be uploaded. This is useful to keep track 
of things when you're adding a lot of templates to the dashboard.

Commit message:

Fetch latest BSNL templates, update README

doc/howto/manage_bsnl_sms_reminders.md, after:

## Sending reminder SMS via BSNL

We use BSNL to send reminder messages in India. This requires us to comply with DLT regulations, for which we need to maintain
a mapping between IDs assigned by DLT and our messages (identified by locale keys).

This is a how-to on interacting with the BSNL and DLT dashboards and maintaining the required mapping with `simple-server`.

### Managing JWT tokens
<TODO>

### Adding new notification strings
- Add the new notification strings to the locale file (in `config/notifications/locale`)
- Upload the notification template to the DLT dashboard. The name should follow the format: `locale.locale_key`. Some examples:
  - `en.notifications.set01.basic`
  - `hi-IN.notifications.set03.basic`

  The locale name needs to be hyphenated (`hi-IN` and not `hi_IN`). This format is used to associate the templates on BSNL to locale keys so it's an important step.
- The template should show up on the BSNL dashboard in a few hours. You will need to name the variables
in the template.

<TODO flesh out these notes on dashboard usage and end-to-end flow, maybe add a video>

### Maintaining template IDs
After the new template has been added to the BSNL dashboard, we need to pull in it's `DLT Template ID` before it can be used as a reminder SMS. We have a script to help with it.

**Note:** You will need production credentials to run the script.

- Copy over the following vars from India production's `.env` file to your `.env.development.local`:
```
BSNL_IHCI_ENTITY_ID=140xxxx
BSNL_IHCI_HEADER=IHCxxx
```
- Get the JWT token from india production with
```
Configuration.fetch("bsnl_sms_jwt")
```
- Create a configuration var locally with this JWT token.
```
Configuration.create(name: "bsnl_sms_jwt", value: "eyJhxxxx")
```
- Run `bundle exec rake bsnl:get_template_details`.
- This should pull the latest configuration from BSNL and save it to `config/data/bsnl_templates.yml`. This will also output a summary of any actions to be taken, go through them carefully.
- Commit and push changes in this file (if there are any).
- Remove the credentials from `.env.development.local`.
- You are all set to use the new reminder message.

#### Additional notes

- The script pulls all templates listed on IHCI's DLT platform. Although, it runs the validations only for reminder notifications specified in `locale/notifications` and will need tweaks to support other kinds of messages.
- You can run `bundle exec rake bsnl:list_pending_templates` to see which templates still need to be uploaded. This is useful to keep track 
of things when you're adding a lot of templates to the dashboard.
